Misti Cain | Techstars Anywhere & San Diego: Goes back to this mobile home. That's when it's back
Misti Cain | Techstars Anywhere & San Diego: to the lab again. Yo, this old rhapsody! Better go capture this moment and hope it don't
Misti Cain | Techstars Anywhere & San Diego: the music the moment you own it, only get one shot.
Jodi Mac | CEO Work Simplr: It's your chance to blow.
Misti Cain | Techstars Anywhere & San Diego: Go back on my mom's 1 time coming up with
Misti Cain | Techstars Anywhere & San Diego: the music the moment you own it. You better bob your head.
Kerty Levy: All right, miss. Your chance to blow this opportunity grows once. I know.
Kerty Levy: Nice job. All right. Jeff's walk up song. This is awesome
Kerty Levy: welcome everyone. I'm so glad you're here. We are thrilled to have you here for today's Q&A. Jeff for your information. We have a mix of founders who are in program right now. So I think we have Sf. Columbus, Workforce, London, Nyc. Baltimore, in the house as well as, and most of those are going to be pre seed seed
Kerty Levy: companies, and then a handful of alums. Recent alums here. So everyone maybe drop your name and your company in your profile. So we've got that.
Kerty Levy: and then have your 20 seconds, please. No more descriptions of your companies ready just in case Jeff asks you what you're building, so go ahead and and get those ready. So we're
Kerty Levy: really, really excited to have Jeff Busgan here, who has been at the intersection of startups investing innovation for just a couple decades. Right, Jeff. He's seen a lot. He is general partner at Flybridge capital and a senior lecturer at Harvard Business School, where he teaches entrepreneurship and startup strategy.
Kerty Levy: He is also the author of actually multiple essential books for founders mastering the Vc. Game entering Startup Land. And of course, most recently he has released the early stage builders thinking about AI book, the experimentation machine finding product market fit in the age of AI.
Kerty Levy: Jeff earned his undergraduate degree in computer science from Harvard College and his Mba. From Harvard Business School, where he graduated as Baker scholar with a career that spans operating, investing, teaching. He brings a rare perspective on how founders can thrive in this rapidly evolving landscape. So with that, Jeff, welcome and thank you for joining us.
Jeff Bussgang: Thank you so much. I'm thrilled to be here in front of the techstars community so many points of contact. 1st misty. Thank you for the walk up song. That was amazing. Appreciate you.
Jeff Bussgang: Kurti. Thank you for having me. Folks may know I've known Kurti's husband for over 3 decades. We were classmates at business school, and I've been a part of the techstars community, for since the beginning I was one of the early early investors and supporters of techstars, Boston and then techstars, New York. And so just really thrilled to be here. And we've we've backed a number of techstars alumni at Flybridge over the years.
Kerty Levy: That's awesome. Even you shouted out. Classpass, too, as one of your examples in your book. So that was a techstars company from a few years back. So that's super guys, I'm going to kick off with a couple of opening questions, and then I want to open it up to you to let you ask as many as you want
Kerty Levy: the. You know. I sent a copy, Jeff, and I think I might have told you this of the experimentation machine to all the Ceos in my current program.
Kerty Levy: and I really consider it to be the new startup Bible incorporating AI along with all the basics of starting a business, and you know the book subtitle is finding product market fit in the age of AI. So maybe we can kick it off with a summary of how AI is literally changing the landscape, the traditional path to starting a business and finding product market fit.
Kerty Levy: You want to start with that.
Jeff Bussgang: Yeah. And look, I'll say a few things that many people here know, I'm sure. But just to kinda summarize, there are a series of timeless methods for finding product market fit
Jeff Bussgang: customer discovery nailing down your ideal customer profile, starting narrow, doing things that don't scale running a series of experiments. I could have written about those things. I mean, I've been teaching about those things for the last 15 years. So I put that in the book because it's important to, I felt, synthesize a lot of those lessons from
Jeff Bussgang: decades of working with startups, investing in startups and teaching thousands and thousands of Hbs students who went on to start companies. So that's there. Those are the timeless methods.
Jeff Bussgang: But now all of you have this amazing opportunity to be 10 X founders leveraging the modern timely AI tool set.
Jeff Bussgang: And that's what's really new, because the modern AI toolset allows you to design and run experiments more effectively and efficiently than ever before.
Jeff Bussgang: And so, as founders, you now need to exercise that muscle and develop that skill, and that, by the way, those tools are dynamic and changing all the time with every new release that comes out every few weeks, whether it's manus or deepseek, or whatever the next thing is.
Jeff Bussgang: and you want to make sure that you're still being very strategic about the timeless methods about picking the right hair on fire problem and value proposition, finding high willingness to pay building a sustainable, profitable, economic model, finding old fashioned competitive advantage and competitive moats. So that's really the interesting. Let's call it 2 eyes, seeing that you, as founders need to be able to do.
Jeff Bussgang: between the timeless methods and the timely tools.
Kerty Levy: Awesome, awesome. I think that's you know, you're hitting on what everyone is going through right now. So they're in the middle of this, and I think they are sharing quite a bit with each other. But, you know, getting a start and understanding what frameworks to use is so so important. So that's great. One of the things that we also got to read about. And also, you know, we've been discussing is
Kerty Levy: what is the future of business models in the age of AI. Right? So sas had its run has had. Maybe it still does. But but we're looking at a gentic AI now coming in. So maybe you can share a little bit about business models. In the age of AI again, an overview to get everyone warmed up. Thinking about specifics.
Jeff Bussgang: I I'll I could give you a tactical answer and a strategic answer to that question. Kurti. The tactical answer, as you note is that Sas has had an amazing multi-decade run, and we all are very accustomed, both
Jeff Bussgang: vendors and buyers of Saas software, to a certain pricing model, and that's the standard monthly upfront, sometimes quarterly, sometimes annual recurring revenue, pricing model. Well, the AI world requires more of a usage based, or perhaps even a value based. Model. And so there are some fascinating experiments going on
Jeff Bussgang: around the ecosystem and our portfolio around usage based and value based, so we could speak more about that. But as founders, I think you have to be very strategic about thinking about value, willingness to pay and capturing as much of that value as possible in the context of
Jeff Bussgang: a cost of goods inference. And you know, models and cloud and usage of data that that has a real bite to it. And so you want to create some sort of usage based pricing model that matches revenue with expenses
Jeff Bussgang: on a strategic level where that question can also lead. One is the fundamental question of look. If software is so easy to build, if millions of lines of code can be generated in a few hours, or maybe at most a few days. Where's the competitive edge? How do I define a competitive moat in this environment? And at Flybridge we talk a lot about that. When we evaluate the companies that we invest in.
Jeff Bussgang: and I'll I'll rattle off 4 areas of competitive moat just briefly, just to seed. As you said, the conversation
Jeff Bussgang: that we talk about internally, and maybe some of you can reflect on one is, do you have proprietary data sets? So, for example, we have an AI Company in the legal space called Noetic, that ingests
Jeff Bussgang: thousands and thousands of legal documents around corporate finance transactions between banks and companies, and they use that to train their model to help in negotiating future deals in benchmarking terms.
Jeff Bussgang: Well, that's a proprietary data set in the vaults of top law firms that Openai and anthropic will never get access to, so the fear of Will Openai kill my startup. Am I just going to be a Gpt wrapper? That's a fear we don't have with them because of that proprietary data set that is, then self reinforcing.
Jeff Bussgang: The second area that we talk about internally is being that system of record and owning the workflow of the worker. Now, in some cases that might be a consumer. But in many cases that's the business. So, for example, one of our portfolio companies is a company called Allspice and Allspice is the Github for hardware engineers. It's a collaboration and a training platform engineering platform for hardware engineers to build out and design their products
Jeff Bussgang: well, the hardware engineers are now in allspice 6, 7 HA day, collaborating and sharing designs, and now, as they layer actions and AI driven designs into their platform. It's very clear
Jeff Bussgang: that they both have a proprietary data set to my earlier point, which are these proprietary designs that blue origin and Waymo and some of their other customers are using. But also now they've owned the workflow of the worker that's living in that platform because humans, there's friction. We all know this. We all got trained on Google. And now we're all trying to get trained on these chat bots and how to interact with them and prompt with them effectively. And your customers are also have a sense of inertia and need to be trained on these new workflows. So you have to be really good at the workflow.
Jeff Bussgang: And then the 3rd is the human AI interface, being really clever about the design of how the AI manifests itself to you.
Jeff Bussgang: Openai got this brilliantly right 2 and a half years ago, when they launched Chatgpt. It's kind of funny to remember the history, but Gpt. One
Jeff Bussgang: Gpt-two, Gpt. 3. Nobody used those platforms because they were just sdks, but when they launched Gpt. 3.5, they said, hey? Just for fun. Let's throw this Chatbot on it, and let's run the experiment to see if we can expose this to the common user. And of course the Chatbot was this killer app. So, understanding what the killer app is, and the killer human AI interface is a really important 3rd criteria, and then the 4th and final is when we talk about teams.
Jeff Bussgang: we ask ourselves.
Jeff Bussgang: is there an earned secret that this team has, and is there some edge that they have where we believe they will stay ahead of the very, very, very competitive environment.
Jeff Bussgang: We just made an investment decision this week in a company that's in a category that's relatively cluttered and hot. But we have a thesis that this team is so good and has such a great vision that we believe their roadmap will continue to allow them to stay ahead for the next couple years. So those 4 things we talk a lot about in terms of competitive advantage and edge in this age of AI, which is sort of the strategic answer to that question about business models. Kurti.
Kerty Levy: Yeah, fantastic. You also hit on something that's very, very current in everyone's minds right now, which is fundraising and thinking about what Vcs are looking for. So you shared some frameworks. One thing I would love to ask before I turn it over to the group is, how do you think about exits in the age of AI. Are they any different? Or, you know, a Vc, obviously you invest and you expect to see an exit at some point? Are there any differences from traditional investing.
Jeff Bussgang: When I was a founder in 1996, my company went public with 1.8 million dollars of trailing revenue and a 1.2 billion dollars market cap.
Jeff Bussgang: That world doesn't exist anymore.
Jeff Bussgang: The threshold for public companies today
Jeff Bussgang: is not a few 1 million of revenue. It's not even 100 million of revenue, which was what we looked at 8, 10 years ago. It's not 200 million of revenue. It's 3, 4, 500 million of revenue people may have seen Circle filed to go public recently. If you read their s. 1, they're over a billion of revenue people know. Klavio was one of the most successful Ipos, recently a Boston-based company. When they went public they were profitable, and 4 or 500 million of revenue circle is also profitable. So the threshold to be a public company is
Jeff Bussgang: very, very high right now. Very, very few companies can hit that threshold, so we are definitely more engaged in the M. And a market than ever before.
Jeff Bussgang: Yesterday we announced the acquisition of one of our portfolio companies, Metaplan, by Datadog.
Kerty Levy: And.
Jeff Bussgang: These big public companies that are north of 1020,000,000,000 of market cap. They want to buy AI assets. They want to buy teams and capabilities that extend their footprint, and the number of 10 billion plus public company tech franchises is grown dramatically. So yeah, there's definitely greater interest in founders who can navigate to value and exits in the M. And A. Market.
Jeff Bussgang: and every now and then, maybe there's somebody who can build a public company, and that would be wonderful and marvelous.
Jeff Bussgang: We we had that experience at Mongodb which was one of our flagship portfolio companies out of New York. But it's really really rare and increasingly difficult.
Kerty Levy: Yeah, no, great. Those are great thoughts, all right. Everyone's had a chance to percolate on their thoughts. What we're going to do everyone is. Gary's already got the memo. You're going to do the raise hand function, and I'll just call you from left to right and then team. If you see any questions there. Can you just chat with whoever that is, and tell them to raise their hand. So, Gary, we'll turn it over to you first.st
Gary Stark: Awesome.
Kerty Levy: Your your name, and your company too.
Gary Stark: Yeah. So I'm Gary Stark. I'm the founder and CEO of a company called Valio. So what we do is we find lost rebate revenue for health systems. Health systems get around 30 million dollars in rebates every year from their supply chain, and it's a total black box of value. They have no clue about accuracy, or if they could have strategically managed their spend to earn more. So we do that for them to save them money and time. So
Gary Stark: to do that we get
Gary Stark: 2 critical pieces of information from the health system. One is every single thing that they've bought. So we manage their entire purchase order, history number one, but number 2, we get their contracts. So you sparked my interest when you told me about the the moat of a proprietary data set. So we have the identical thing. My question is
Gary Stark: right. Now. I built a custom Gpt. To to do that. It helps to pull out the critical details that we need in order to get it into our platform. And we're also meeting with with Google about potentially using Gemini to do something to do just that. What concerns me, though, is that if I'm using the
Gary Stark: I guess for lack of a better term, the out of the box AI tool?
Gary Stark: Are we losing that competitive mode? Unless? And and I think Google told me that they don't train their model on our data.
Gary Stark: But can you just share, because I think that's fascinating what you said about the competitive mode being your data. But I want to before we get too far along. I don't want to start training something that oh, man, I wish I just I did it the right way to start.
Jeff Bussgang: It's a great question, Gary. And
Jeff Bussgang: look, I'm not gonna give product
Jeff Bussgang: advice in too much detail here, but I'll try to generalize it. The platforms today, and the 3 main platforms.
Jeff Bussgang: Google Gemini.
Trina Das: No second. Please please wait please wait second.
Kerty Levy: Sorry we'll mute that.
Trina Das: Yeah.
Jeff Bussgang: Google Slash, Gemini, Anthropic and Openai.
Jeff Bussgang: Those platforms keep getting better and better and better. And this is my comment about not being a Gpt Wrapper and Openai, killing my startup.
Jeff Bussgang: That said, you want to build on those platforms and leverage those platforms and plug into their Apis, because, as they get better and better and better. Your application gets free feature, rich
Jeff Bussgang: improvements. So what you just want to make sure you're doing is that the wrapper you put on. That is not a thin wrapper, but rather a wrapper. That really adds value to your end user. In your case, the health plans and the actual. I don't know in the case of rebates, but who the actual user might be really owning the workflow around that individual.
Jeff Bussgang: so that, plus leveraging the proprietary data. And yes, all these platforms are very now strict about data moats, and being very careful about shielding the data from the general public.
Jeff Bussgang: And of course you want to validate that. But that's really going to be. I think a key thing for you to think about is the the detailed specific workflows that. Get that last mile. If you can nail the last mile, plug into the platforms, benefit from the rising tide that exists. Reap the AI dividend much like all of you, have been reaping the cloud dividend over the last 10 years. I think that's the formula for success.
Gary Stark: Okay. Thank you.
Kerty Levy: All right. Seamus.
Shamus Collins | Secure AI, CEO: Hey, Jeff, thanks for meeting with us today. I'm seamus founder CEO. At secure AI.
Shamus Collins | Secure AI, CEO: We're building a private AI platform that operates on premise and on edge devices. So I'm curious how you would think about pricing a product like this because the traditional Sas model maybe doesn't make much sense, and the usage based model
Shamus Collins | Secure AI, CEO: also is is challenging. Since we're not paying for the usage.
Jeff Bussgang: It's a great question, Seamus, I'll say more. Generally, these models.
Jeff Bussgang: obviously, everyone's focused on the scale and the size of the big models and the main models. But the small models and the open source models and the ability to put those on the edge, I think, are
Jeff Bussgang: fascinating fantastic area. So I really love the general trend you're working on.
Jeff Bussgang: and I would also say that
Jeff Bussgang: on Prem is is very thought provoking your your business. It's a business to business customer, I assume.
Shamus Collins | Secure AI, CEO: Yes, yes.
Jeff Bussgang: Because obviously, businesses are very sensitive, as Gary pointed out, to having their data be shared broadly, and their models and various tuning that they might do so. I think that's also really interesting. Look, I think value based pricing is the best way to go you have to think about. If I were in my customer's shoes, what would be my Roi calculation?
Jeff Bussgang: And then how much of that value can I claim versus give?
Jeff Bussgang: So, for example.
Jeff Bussgang: pick pick your number. If it's a million dollars of value you think you're creating for them, then you can say, Well, I'll give 2 thirds of that, and I'll try to claim 1 3rd of that or 300 plus 1,000, and then you have to argue, for how do you scale that relative to your cost. Maybe it's seat based.
Jeff Bussgang: Maybe it's not usage based. But maybe there's some metering that you can do. Maybe it's data scale based, even though they're smaller models. Maybe there's some tiering that you can do.
Jeff Bussgang: So. I think those are the types of things that we're going to see more and more. And of course, there's the classic functionality based, you know, dividing up the product into various modules, base module, silver, gold, platinum, etc. So I think those types of more creative pricing models are going to be the future, and maybe those are some ideas that will spark, some thinking for you, Seamus.
Shamus Collins | Secure AI, CEO: Okay. Thank you.
Kerty Levy: Awesome. All right, Andrea, you're up next.
Kerty Levy: Oh, you're on mute.
Andrea Guendelman: Yes, Hi! I'm Andrea Gwendelman. I am the founder of Speak, which provides signals to help recruiters find real qualified humans in a world of resumes and red flags.
Andrea Guendelman: So I guess my question is,
Andrea Guendelman: the commodities commoditization of AI, and how? You know how we go to market these days. Because, you know the traditional, I mean, we are experiencing
Andrea Guendelman: so much more competition that it used to be. And also we're experiencing over, you know, overloads in in emails and and sort of like the traditional email marketing campaigns. They're still working. But they're not as effective as they used to be. And so what are you seeing in terms, and and also like, because of the competition? The pricing is going down. So how are you seeing? The best examples of go to market, I mean, if that's.
Jeff Bussgang: Great question, Andrea. First, st I'll say
Jeff Bussgang: I talk a little bit about this in my book. I have a chapter on go-to-market experiments, and I give some case studies
Jeff Bussgang: on this topic, I'll also say I like your category as well. I'm an investor in bright hire, which is this interview Intelligence platform. You may be familiar with them.
Andrea Guendelman: Yes, I know, I know. I know. Benjamin. Yes.
Jeff Bussgang: Yes, I think this whole world of talent, acquisition, filtering management is going to be radically transformed with AI. So I I really love this category.
Jeff Bussgang: So look, this is the other thing we talk about internally in my partnership when we're in our investment committee meeting, when the doors are closed. When the founders leave the room and we say, What's the go to Market Edge? Does this founder have an approach or a point of view that gives them an edge on, go to market.
Jeff Bussgang: And what we have seen is that thought, leadership and
Jeff Bussgang: category defining products are are critical. Often the founder needs to be that spokesperson and that thought leader.
Jeff Bussgang: You saw this. If you know bright hire, you see this a little bit with bright hires, content on Linkedin. You see this with almost every Major b 2 b software company where the CEO and the co-founders are out in front sharing interesting data, interesting insights aggregated and anonymized about what's going on. And in your world. Maybe it's about candidate flow and filtering and
Jeff Bussgang: different criteria that people are using to help surface and filter candidates. So thought leadership. And then, you know, the 1st thing you have to do for many of you who are in that 0 to one phase is, get 10 customers who love you. If you're in the b 2 b world, and maybe a thousand customers, if you're in the b 2 c world, so that can be hand to hand combat founder selling.
Jeff Bussgang: Then you have to find the repeatable sales playbook, often making outside hires and marketing and sales, and making them successful. And so we often look and evaluate founders and their ability to make that transition from founder selling to building a sales and marketing repeatable machine and showing evidence of that, I think, is going to be quite critical as well.
Andrea Guendelman: Thank you.
Kerty Levy: All right, Meg, you're up next.
Meg Hall, CEO, SalesPlay X: Hey, Jeff? So everything you were just saying definitely aligns with my company. Sales play X, and so my question to you is about more about
Meg Hall, CEO, SalesPlay X: your what you mentioned about pricing right? So I haven't really heard that. Take on it that before, and I think my fear and I've thought about doing value based pricing particularly if you were to help them capture some of that that spend. And like, let's say, if I help them like, bring in 20 million dollars like they would pay us like 2 million or right, or something like that, like you figured out like whatever percentage that is for value based pricing.
Meg Hall, CEO, SalesPlay X: But I think the fear is is like investors wouldn't be interested in some kind of a pricing model like that because it's less repeatable than just getting an annual contract. Right? So what are your thoughts on that? And like? Do you think, as an investor that would scare you off if somebody didn't have an annual contract that has guaranteed recurring. Sas.
Jeff Bussgang: It's a great question. And it's not just investors. It's also your customers, because they want to budget in a
Jeff Bussgang: well defined, predictable way. And so how do they budget when it's going to have this variability? But of course they're all used to that in the cloud world, and they're all used to that in the compute and storage world. So there are precedents for this, I think, as an investor, assume, your investors are sophisticated, good investors are sophisticated, and will dream along with you on that point.
Jeff Bussgang: I would also say, if your strategy is land and expand which many of our
Jeff Bussgang: portfolio companies pursue, you have to show early evidence
Jeff Bussgang: of the land and expand strategy playing out, you can't just land and say in the future these will expand to these massive contracts you have to show the early early bits of expand, even if it's from one unit to 3 units or one department to 3 departments or one user to 5 users and 2 case studies. Just a little bit of land and expand proof, point and evidence will go a long way
Jeff Bussgang: with investors. And the final thing, I'll say, is, many of our companies that are experimenting with usage based pricing have a baseline
Jeff Bussgang: that sas and then usage on top
Jeff Bussgang: so Notica, as an example, has a baseline monthly fee to the law firms, and then a per contract usage based pricing. And so
Jeff Bussgang: investors can sort of predict. And the companies can predictably show. Okay, there's skin in the game. This is real. We're investing in this thing. It's costing us money. We better use it, and then you can see that early evidence of usage grow over time.
Meg Hall, CEO, SalesPlay X: Great. Thank you.
Kerty Levy: Awesome, alright! Marsha!
MarshaWisely - Athion - CEO: Hi, Jeff! I'm Marsha wisely. CEO of Atheon. We do modern CAD for modern manufacturing enhancing your static drawings with prototyping concepts, so that you can better understand and communicate and reduce the risk of lost production and manufacturing like oil and gas, pharma and chemical.
MarshaWisely - Athion - CEO: And so in this space, it's kind of dusty. And you know, even Sas is still new and shiny. For us. And so it's it's interesting kind of hearing these different models. And you know, maybe as things change, we'll move, continue to move into the future. But, there's a lot of growth for that industry. I guess one of the things that you said earlier was like, you know, one of the things that makes something sticky is if it changes your workflow, and it's part of like your day to day.
MarshaWisely - Athion - CEO: I have some ideas like in in my case, there are operators that run these facilities. And so when I think about my pricing model, I'm like, I want as many operators touching this as possible, so that it's like, take it out of my cold dead hands. Right? But just kind of curious from your perspective, like, how do you get that stickiness and get into those workflows? Are there any strategies that work really? Well? For for companies like, specifically the
MarshaWisely - Athion - CEO: Hardware engineering Company, you talked about earlier, specifically pretty curious about that.
Jeff Bussgang: Yeah, you can look up all spice. Was that company in it?
MarshaWisely - Athion - CEO: Yes.
Jeff Bussgang: Driving. Let me. Can I show a slide, Kurt? I hope you don't mind. This doesn't feel.
Kerty Levy: You should be.
Jeff Bussgang: Of course.
Kerty Levy: Your way. There you go!
Jeff Bussgang: Can you see it?
Kerty Levy: Yep.
Jeff Bussgang: Okay, this is at the risk of feeling like a Harvard lecturer. So I apologize in advance. But I will say something. You made something a comment about the kind of dusty industries. And I love that reference. And I have this thesis on this that I wanted to share with you. So look, you all know that there's this massive opportunity, multi trillion dollar opportunity that AI represents. And you all know that there exists this model that most people talk about in the technology lifecycle adoption curve
Jeff Bussgang: of crossing the chasm, a Gaussian distribution where you have innovators that are a very small percentage that will try out your product and then early adopters early majority. And your comment about dusty industries. You know there are a bunch of industries which are just full of late majority and laggards Luddites, I dare say, and one of my theses of the AI moment we're in
Jeff Bussgang: is that it's bending the curve that there's a moment now, where even the dusty industries and I see this across oil and gas and manufacturing and chemicals and other
Jeff Bussgang: verticals that some of my portfolio companies are pursuing that they're all bending the curve because they all realize that if they are in the late majority or laggard category they will be dramatically disrupted and their business will disappear. They're all afraid of being blockbuster. And so
Jeff Bussgang: that's the dynamic it feels like we're in now, those late majority customers. They may aspire to be innovators, but they skip the cloud wave like you said, and now they're jumping on this wave. But it takes time to get them to there. So you need to do a lot of handholding. But I do believe we're in a moment where dusty
Jeff Bussgang: segments and industries are going to be awesome ones, because there is this hunger to be innovative and a recognition that maybe the standard technology lifecycle adoption curve is dangerous to wait around for. And then the second thing on sticky. I love that question as well. Another set of language I like to use is entangled.
Jeff Bussgang: So you want to make sure that your customer is entangled in your product.
Jeff Bussgang: and that may be that there, take some time to load up some data. So you slow down to speed up, so to speak. It may be that you take a little time to train them on the platform, so they get addicted to the workflows. It may be that you take a little time to connect to their existing systems. And you build some connectors. And, by the way, the modern
Jeff Bussgang: code generation, tools like cursor, and others are incredibly effective at building these connectors very quickly. It used to be that you didn't have the time and the engineering bandwidth, but now you can build those connectors extremely quickly into their Erp systems or Crm systems.
Jeff Bussgang: And so then you walk in and you say, Hey, I've got these connectors with your existing systems. I've got this ability to ingest your data and then enrich your data. I've got these workflows that your users have to use. And now, suddenly, they're entangled. And so those are the types of things you might consider emphasizing in the upfront implementation.
MarshaWisely - Athion - CEO: Okay, yeah, no, that's very helpful. Thank you.
Kerty Levy: Great all right. Fabio.
Favio Osorio | Arbol: Excellent. Hi, Jeff, thanks for being here today. My name is Fabio Sorio. I'm the co-founder and head of product at Arbel. We are a financial planning platform based in Buffalo, New York. We help colleges reduce the staff workload and improve student retention. My question for you is, what are your thoughts on how product teams should approach
Favio Osorio | Arbol: the use of synthetic personas and AI generated data for validation. Where do you see the biggest opportunities? And what risks should teams watch out for.
Jeff Bussgang: 1st of all, I am going to answer your question, despite being a patriots, Fan, just for the.
Favio Osorio | Arbol: Thank you.
Jeff Bussgang: I think that the use of customer AI customer personas is a fantastic use case for helping find product market fit and leveraging the modern AI tools. I do talk about it in the book.
Jeff Bussgang: I think you can train, I know, because I see it all the time you can train
Jeff Bussgang: these personas, you can create a notebook. Lm, which is a free Google tool. Throw your actual transcribed call notes from or videos from customer discovery interviews.
Jeff Bussgang: Throw a bunch of research papers about your customer profile. Add a bunch of your internal notes, and then suddenly, you have a tool where you can have it. Act like a customer, and that tool is available 7 by 24 to everybody on your team, you know, there used to be that engineers would say, gosh, I don't really understand our customer. Or maybe I'll build something this way or that way, and they'll make decisions without full context.
Jeff Bussgang: Well, now, you can have that context available to them at their fingertips, 7 by 24. So I think there's some really powerful ways.
Jeff Bussgang: And you can also, in your training and iterating with the customer. Ui persona. If it's out of whack, I mean you're the best judge of how close it is to reality. If it's out of whack. You tell it it's out of whack, and then it adjusts. And so I would develop a custom Gpt or a notebook. Lm, or you know, a rag based system for people who know the rag based technique and retrieval augmented generation
Jeff Bussgang: which allows you to train the models on a finite corpus of data, pull the corpus of all your transcribed insights and customer data set, and then go to town and look, there's no there are these nuanced insights, and there's no substitute for the emotional connection that you're going to have with your customer. But it's an and you know, whereas you might have had sort of.
Jeff Bussgang: you know, 10 units of customer exposure. You're now going to give your entire team 100 units of customer exposure. 10 will be real people and 90 will be synthetic. AI, driven.
Favio Osorio | Arbol: Very quickly, yes, thank you.
Kerty Levy: Great.
Kerty Levy: All right, Daniel and Fabio. You can lower your hand if you want.
Daniel Baddeley | CEO | BestDefense.io: Hey, Jeff? Dan Badley, founder CEO, of best defense. So we developed an AI driven platform that unifies automation, automated penetration testing with remediation, infrastructure network and application stress testing
Daniel Baddeley | CEO | BestDefense.io: and real time network threat intelligence. So dual use platform that we developed for like Msps Telcos and and public sector organizations.
Daniel Baddeley | CEO | BestDefense.io: so kind of going towards what you were mentioning about, like the way to stand apart is is proprietary data sets right. What is the novel things that you've uncovered in the industry to be able to help set yourself apart with the advent of AI, and and essentially being able to use it, to be able to create permutations of pretty much
Daniel Baddeley | CEO | BestDefense.io: anything, and eventually everything you know. And we talk about. You know, what protections do you have as a business when you get patents on hardware, when the AI system might be able to make slight alterations to that, to be able to get around patents. And now you can potentially lose that.
Daniel Baddeley | CEO | BestDefense.io: or you know, it can directly replicate other products on the market. How much emphasis would you put on. Go to market strategy and partnerships with vendors like, you know Verizon. And you know, partnerships and collaboration with like government agencies and things like that. And
Daniel Baddeley | CEO | BestDefense.io: how much would investors look at that as like a plus one knowing that basically in the future, you know, all software systems could be replicated and potentially even hardware.
Jeff Bussgang: Yeah, thanks. It's a great question. By the way, I think this is a super category. We're investors in netbox labs. If you're familiar with them. Which is this open source platform in the telecom network sort of topography space. And and we've also done a number of investments in the cyber security space. Recognizing that AI is generating more threat vectors and requiring an even greater spend in the cyberspace.
Jeff Bussgang: So I think I think it's really terrific that you're working in this area. So to answer your question on distribution.
Jeff Bussgang: we're big believers in avoiding gatekeepers in the early days.
Jeff Bussgang: so that you're maintaining direct contact with customers, so that you're seeing those insights again just in the early days, because only you will know how to sell and learn the best how to sell, and those customer insights will feed your product roadmap. So we don't like the idea of gatekeepers and 3rd parties organizations selling on your behalf until you yourself learn how to sell.
Jeff Bussgang: Once you learn how to sell, you can teach someone else to sell ideally. You teach an employee to sell someone you control that's in house that's shoulder to shoulder with you. Once you prove you can do that once or twice, then you can teach a Channel partner to sell.
Jeff Bussgang: But going right to step 3. Teaching a Channel partner to sell is a recipe for disaster, because you've never gone through the training playbook and
Jeff Bussgang: step 0. You've never even sold yourself and learned how to sell yourself. So that that's sort of how we think about the progression from founder selling to expeditionary reps doing the selling for you that you control to channel and scalable selling.
Jeff Bussgang: And that's the framework I refer to in the book is the sales learning curve that I I just highly recommend you read read up on
Jeff Bussgang: once you've broken through and gotten someone like Verizon to sell for you. That's incredible. Like, that's an amazing way to accelerate and leverage distribution. And, as you noted in the age of AI,
Jeff Bussgang: competitive advantage is going to be about brand and distribution as much, if not more, than product. So I think that's a really great strategy. Eventually you just have to walk, crawl, run your way there, or crawl, walk, run your way there as opposed, to jump, to run, and stumble.
Daniel Baddeley | CEO | BestDefense.io: I appreciate that cause. And it was really just coming down to the fact that it was like.
Daniel Baddeley | CEO | BestDefense.io: based off of what you were saying. We were trying to find the ways when we were presenting this to investors right? For, like what is the most valuable part of the system today. And what are the sustainable differentiators in the future? And it really just came down to? Well, if, all things being equal and everybody can generate anything. Then it our thoughts were maybe it would come down to the relationships that we've developed.
Jeff Bussgang: Yeah. And you just have to make sure those relationships are productive and sticky, that they can't swap you out, or that they don't do what I used to call a Barney relationship. Have you ever heard of that expression?
Daniel Baddeley | CEO | BestDefense.io: No.
Jeff Bussgang: You remember the the big purple dinosaur, Barney?
Jeff Bussgang: I do remember. Barney
Jeff Bussgang: love you. You love me. We're all one big, happy family. So those are the relationships that go nowhere. They're just sort of high level, very surface. And and there's no actual tangible oomph behind it. So we as many investors. We see through the Barney relationships. We see through the press releases, and we go right to like, where's the where's the where's the beef? To quote another ad from Wendy's, you know, where's the really the substantive, tangible impact of these relationships on the ground.
Daniel Baddeley | CEO | BestDefense.io: So show me the money.
Jeff Bussgang: You got it, Tom Cruise.
Daniel Baddeley | CEO | BestDefense.io: Thank you, appreciate it.
Kerty Levy: Good call. All right. We have a whole room of techstars. Columbus, do we have one or a couple questions? Go ahead.
Kerty Levy: Yeah, we have 2 in the room. If it's okay, if we can do both sounds great.
techstars Columbus: Awesome. Well, thank you, Jeff, for speaking with us. I'm Cameron. I'm the founder and CEO of rin. We're developing an AI stylist. So helping people to style the clothes they already own. So they're not feeling the need to constantly be buying new clothes, leveraging AI to frictionlessly create digital twins of the wardrobe and then provide outfit recommendations. So wanted to touch on your book a little bit.
techstars Columbus: Unfortunately, I haven't had the opportunity to read it just yet, but I'm looking forward to doing it, because this is what we're talking about right now as a business, and I'm curious if you have a rule of thumb for what you consider to be rapid in the sense that like, if
techstars Columbus: you are thinking about a hypothesis that you want to test, and it's going to take 3 weeks. But your cutoff as a company is typically 2 weeks to ensure that you are rapidly experimenting. Do you then break that experiment up, or do you say 3 weeks is fine? It's just a little bit more than 2 like, do you have a process for that?
Jeff Bussgang: Yeah. First, st I should note that my mom grew up in Delaware, Ohio, just down the street from you.
techstars Columbus: Yes. Yeah.
Jeff Bussgang: So I have fond childhood memories of visiting my grandparents in Columbus.
techstars Columbus: Awesome.
techstars Columbus: I'll get a good enough rep.
Jeff Bussgang: And so on. Your question of like, how how rapid, is rapid and
Jeff Bussgang: kind of the fidelity of the customer feedback.
Jeff Bussgang: So there's this saying which I talk about in the book of, and this is a quote from Paul Graham, when he was giving the founder of Airbnb Brian Chesky some advice, you know. Get a hundred people to love you. It's more valuable than a million people to like you.
Jeff Bussgang: And and so it's less to me about how rapid are your iteration! Well, rapid iterations are! Yes, incredibly important, because they show your velocity and your trajectory. But it's also the early signs of product market fit in that 101st 501,000. And I have this framework in the book I call the Hunch Framework, which I'll rattle through super quickly, and the reason I use the word hunch
Jeff Bussgang: is that in the early days when you're a founder and the data is unclear and very nascent, you have a hunch like you're not exactly sure you have product market fit, but you have some instincts, and then this is a rubric that helps you validate those instincts. And so the H is for hair on fire value. Proposition to really test yourself as to whether this is an important value prop. You know in the case of your AI stylist, is this a top 1, 2, or 3 thing on the mind of your ideal customer profile?
Jeff Bussgang: Or are they too busy with other things, with their Instagram accounts and Tiktoks, and whatever else so really trying to break through the clutter and convincing yourself that you have a hair on fire value prop that gets to the top of the priority line. The U is usage. Once you give the product to your customer or get it in front of them. Are they using it? It sounds very simple, but tracking usage, behavior over time.
techstars Columbus: And back to your point about rapid cycles.
Jeff Bussgang: Is that usage enduring, or does it drop off rapidly? We all know that there are thousands of apps that we have on our phones that we downloaded and never use anymore. And there are only a few dozen that we use repeatedly.
Jeff Bussgang: Sergey Brin and Larry Page from Google had this great test I talk about in the book, the toothbrush test, which is, it must be, not only a must have hair on fire value prop, but also something you use daily or weekly, like a toothbrush. We all use daily or twice a day. So Google would always talk about new products, and whether they could pass the toothbrush test. So that's the use for you and usage
Jeff Bussgang: N is Nps score. It's a measure of customer love and willingness of customers to refer to other people. It's a way of capturing virality. So in your example, after your 100 customers use your product and it solves a big problem, and they seem to love it. Do they tell their friends about it? Do they really want to share how beautiful it is? C is churn? That's a negative number. Make sure the churn is low. It's kind of tied to usage and frequency, but also
Jeff Bussgang: often tied to the specifics of either payments or re logins and re app spin ups, and then the final one H is a high Ltv. To Cac ratio, which is just a reminder. You know the h and hunch that you need to make sure you're watching your unit economics. And if it's bad unit economics, then
Jeff Bussgang: you know, it's going to be a bad outcome. This week. A couple days ago I was in a board meeting with a 10 year old company north of 100 million of revenue in my portfolio.
Jeff Bussgang: and we're still struggling with our unit economics. We we still can't seem to get to that profitable point. And
Jeff Bussgang: you know, 10 years later, it's a very frustrating point to be even at the scale that we're at. So really trying to think and anticipate whether you've got a acquisition and lifetime value formula that leads to a profitable, positive unit economics business, and seeing that in advance. So those are the hunch metrics. I know I'm kind of giving you a side answer to the rapid prototype and rapid iteration. But hopefully, that gives you maybe kind of answers the question through another vector.
techstars Columbus: Yeah, it's very helpful. I kind of figured it wasn't gonna be just a straight like 2 weeks is the the rule of thumb. But that was super helpful. Thank you.
Jeff Bussgang: Sure.
Kerty Levy: And one more from Columbus.
techstars Columbus: Yeah. So I'm Chris from pulled to refresh, and our goal is to replace landfills with nature reserves and pay for that with high quality carbon credits that we can sell to major corporations that want to offset their carbon emissions from AI.
techstars Columbus: And so I think what you said about sort of the value is in the data is something that we really need to think about. And I guess even coming into this meeting, our assumption was that our data should be public, because it's all about reporting. And so through improved transparency, we can sell these carbon credits through trust. And you know the fact that we do things like, use AI to
techstars Columbus: improve the trust by making sure that no one can cheat the carbon credit process. But I'm wondering if what we're saying, if we maybe should be
techstars Columbus: less open about it. Maybe, you know, really have that data available. But I wonder if to really
techstars Columbus: maximize the value of our company. We need to be, maybe not default to the open thing, and maybe sort of make sure that there's better controls on our data to make sure that, like we capture the full value of our company. But we actually use vm.com as our IoT, you know, which is Elliot Horowitz's after, you know, giving you guys a good great return. He's swinging for the fences again.
Jeff Bussgang: Yes, that's a great reference. Thanks, Chris. I appreciate it. I think that's a great question. And look I only you will know the best way to answer that question. The trade off between, if the date is open.
Jeff Bussgang: is it higher likelihood of usage? And can you get the flywheel spinning because of the openness and open source and other techniques have shown that can be incredibly powerful and valuable.
Jeff Bussgang: Or do you keep it proprietary and try to protect it from the crawlers and everyone else, so that people really have to come to you and the in the middle strategy might be. You provide some
Jeff Bussgang: of the data for free. But then, maybe some of the enriched data or analytics around the data or comparative benchmarks relative to the individual data come with a price, and are behind a paywall of some kind.
techstars Columbus: The other thing I'd say is.
Jeff Bussgang: I've never met a student in my 15 years of teaching 2,500 students who has been interested in landfills. Except for this year, this semester. I have a student who's obsessed with landfills. She worked at Ginkgo Bio.
Jeff Bussgang: and she's now thinking about an ideating on a startup in the landfill sector. I would love to connect you with her if you're at all interested. So hit me up on email, and I'll see if I can affect the connection.
techstars Columbus: Great.
Kerty Levy: Awesome, all right, Drew. We'll move back to virtual world.
Drew, Lead Ops & Marketing | Auditocity: Back to virtual world. Hey, Jeff?
Drew, Lead Ops & Marketing | Auditocity: My name is Drew Scholens. I'm the head of operations for a company called Auditocity. In fact, you're about to meet
Drew, Lead Ops & Marketing | Auditocity: my my founder over here to my left is Gia. She's next. Autonosity is a Hr. Diagnostics platform. So we give any organization the opportunity to be able to do a self audit of their Hr. Compliance and best practices without a costly consulting engagement if they don't want one, and frankly, probably better than their consulting engagement. We've done all the research and present a really holistic solution.
Drew, Lead Ops & Marketing | Auditocity: I'm gonna build on Dan's question from earlier. So we're gonna go back to Dan. In fact, before this call I was on the call with Seamus, who you met
Drew, Lead Ops & Marketing | Auditocity: about 5 questions ago, and he reminded me of the 4 pages in your book about Channel partners, and we were talking about Channel partners. We have been barnied to borrow your term.
Drew, Lead Ops & Marketing | Auditocity: and it hasn't such a bad thing. It's it's what I call good problems, right? These are the kind of problems I want. But before we ever pushed any code to production, we had signed a huge Channel partner in the space of Hr. Tech.
Drew, Lead Ops & Marketing | Auditocity: They loved the vision they loved Gia, and they took a runner on us and brought us in into the marketplace. We were very excited, and we kind of thought, well.
Drew, Lead Ops & Marketing | Auditocity: we've succeeded, yay, however, Barney, they love us, we love them, but like not a whole lot of movement.
Drew, Lead Ops & Marketing | Auditocity: We pivoted late last year as the product finally matured
Drew, Lead Ops & Marketing | Auditocity: into going direct sales. We're building up that pathway. But any suggestions I get to ask a very specific question, because Dan kind of set me up earlier. Thank you, Dan.
Drew, Lead Ops & Marketing | Auditocity: what are some great suggestions to unbarnify yourself right when I want to graduate from Barney to Sesame Street. How do I get off that into something real?
Jeff Bussgang: Using Barney as a verb gives me the Heebie Jeebies. I'm just gonna say that.
Drew, Lead Ops & Marketing | Auditocity: Comment section agrees.
Jeff Bussgang: I'm just gonna leave it at that. So look to make a Channel partner successful.
Jeff Bussgang: One of the key unlocks is field engagement.
Jeff Bussgang: and you. You as a startup probably don't have the resources to do this out of the box, but maybe over time and using AI tools, and maybe with a director of channels you could, you could pull this off.
Jeff Bussgang: But what tends to happen is you get this the reason these agreements go. Nowhere is you get corporate to corporate energy and enthusiasm, and then it goes down to the field, and the field says, Well, what's my incentive to bring this thing along or sell this thing. I'm not getting paid. I'm purely a commission based rep.
Jeff Bussgang: And I've got these targets and I'm fired. If I don't hit these targets and I put food on my table and gas in my car, or electricity in my ev if I hit the targets. But what do I get if I sell autosity like there's no incentive here, so you have to get some incentive structure in place that makes it worth their while, and you have to have field to field engagement. You have to have a couple wins.
Jeff Bussgang: so get get out of the top corporate conversation, get down into the field and make 2 or 3 reps or regions wildly successful, and show that they have a win because they brought you in.
Jeff Bussgang: and then they share that with their friends. And now it's a case study, and you can brag about it in their con at their conference and user gatherings and sales.
Jeff Bussgang: You know, kickoffs and fancy places and beautiful spots in the Caribbean. So that's really the the key that you really have to go is
Jeff Bussgang: grassroots. One or 2 case studies build a win, make it worth their while, maybe even overcompensate them to pull through and then use that as a rinse, repeat playbook.
Drew, Lead Ops & Marketing | Auditocity: Interesting.
Drew, Lead Ops & Marketing | Auditocity: I appreciate that.
Kerty Levy: Great advice. All right. Gia.
Gia Wiggins|Auditocity|CEO: Well, since he's already introduced us, I don't have to do that part. Hi, Jeff, I'm the CEO of auditocity. Just kind of leaning into that a little bit. One of the things that we're doing right now is we're integrating an agentic AI to like enhance user engagement.
Gia Wiggins|Auditocity|CEO: We've also recently discovered that, like one of our biggest value props to the larger market and to tech partners is actually the amount of data that we're going to receive as we have over 500 questions inside our audits.
Gia Wiggins|Auditocity|CEO: And so we're able to isolate like who the Hrs Provider is who the payroll provider is. And so we're that is definitely one of our our competitive modes.
Gia Wiggins|Auditocity|CEO: And so when we use that, it helps us to be able to bring more value, of course, for, like the scoring and best practices for our users, but also we have data sets that nobody else can get. So we know exactly how these people who use this payroll provider, this AR. Hrs system answer questions specifically inside of an audit around different Hr related categories. And so it's information that they're not going to be able to get anywhere else.
Gia Wiggins|Auditocity|CEO: One of our problems as we are introducing auditocity to the greater world is that the word audit is not sexy. It freaks people out, you know. They start to get the sweats in the Heebie Jeebies. As you know, you started to talk about a little bit earlier.
Gia Wiggins|Auditocity|CEO: My question is, how do you recommend that we position the fact that we have this enormous ability to have this data set right? And I mean the data set. It can be absolutely massive with a thousand customers, even 500 customers. It would be ridiculous. How do we position this as a competitive mode to enterprise level customers as well as investors and tech partners, to really kind of drive them
Gia Wiggins|Auditocity|CEO: to a yes.
Jeff Bussgang: 1st I love your background, the Forbes, next 1,000 poster congratulations, the branding top notch. Love it so. And and I apologize pretty. This is going to be. I think our last question because I got to jump right right at the hour. But I think that
Jeff Bussgang: you know I mentioned this human AI interface, and the power that the chat Bot provided to manifest the open AI underlying Gpt capabilities?
Jeff Bussgang: Is there a way for you to manifest the power of this data set for your target customer.
Jeff Bussgang: and visually or intellectually engage them in the art of the possible, and allow them to dream a little bit about what the future might look like if they had this data set at their fingertips.
Jeff Bussgang: And I think this notion of using agentic tooling
Jeff Bussgang: is so comfortable for those of us who are immersed in the startup ecosystem, and and living in Startup Land, but so foreign and scary for our users, and so showing them in a way that doesn't freak them out.
Jeff Bussgang: What the future looks like, and why it's going to make their lives easier, putting yourself in their shoes, which I'm sure you and
Jeff Bussgang: Chris can do. You and Drew can do, because you guys seem like you've got incredible empathy. So, having that empathetic view. Put yourself in the customer shoes, think about how you make their lives better as a result of your tool, and then show that to them that would be the the guidance I might give.
Gia Wiggins|Auditocity|CEO: Thank you so much.
Kerty Levy: Amazing and I know you have to jump. So there were a couple of questions, and maybe you answered it in the chat. But some of the folks wanted to get in touch with you. Have you shared your email? Or what's your preferred way? Okay, great, perfect.
Jeff Bussgang: Yeah.
Kerty Levy: Everyone. Yeah.
Jeff Bussgang: Yeah, no, I was, gonna say, feel free to follow me on Linkedin. And and I shared my email so that you can link up with me on Linkedin and shoot me an email if you have any questions. And I should say one other thing, and I know this sounds a little odd, but I created a clone of myself
Jeff Bussgang: through Delphi. Delphi. AI is this incredible tool? And I created this AI clone, and I've trained it on all my writings and books and blog posts, and my students have been using it to get 7 by 24 office hour access to me. And it's video as well as voice and text. And I'm getting rave reviews from my students on it. So I'm sharing it with the techstars. Community feel free to use that as well.
Kerty Levy: What a gift! Thank you so much. All right. Everyone hand a round of applause for Jeff. Thanks for joining us. Really appreciate it. Alright! Take care.
Jeff Bussgang: See you.
Misti Cain | Techstars Anywhere & San Diego: Thanks. Jeff bye, all.